Where are the Ph.D.s in bureaucracy management?


Why don't people study bureaucracies more? They are important and relevant to our lives today, so I believe they merit being studied. You want a driver's license? Or to file for unemployment benefits? Or even navigate the process of overseas air travel? Well, you'll be dealing with a morass of rules that are too numerous and complex for any human to fully understand.

I've never met someone with a Ph.D. in bureaucracy. I've never heard of a university course named "Bureaucracy: Theory and Design". There are people who study ancient mythology, something that has far less impact on our lives. I'm not saying that people should only study what's relevant, but given HOW relevant it is to our lives, I think it should be studied more.


Bureaucracies are emergent phenomena, having arisen from sets of rules, regulations, and norms created by a myriad of people and organizations. Thus, there's no intelligent design, often no guiding principals, and sometimes no reason at all for such things.

I, like everyone, have had my run-ins with bureaucracies. Working for the US Government, I have had to sign more than my share of meaningless documents, but one, in particular, stands out. At one point I was transferring from one office to another in a different location. As part of the mass of paperwork, I was given a piece of paper saying that I would notify my home office within 24 hours of my severe injury or death. Yes, that's right, I was told to sign a piece of paper saying I would let someone know if I unexpectedly met my end. And what did I do with this paper? I signed it. Because I know how to survive in a bureaucracy.

How can this come about? I don't know the answer. But I can speculate. I believe that no person in the entire world knows the answer. I believe this policy is, like so many other bureaucratic policies, a resulting policy from two overlapping policies. Say someone gets an injury on the job and because people like to overreact about these types of things, word spreads quickly, soon reaching the organization's director the next day. The next morning the director asks the manager of the employees' home office. Because it's a minor thing and there is no official reporting requirement, the manager doesn't know about it, and is mortified to be asked about a direct report's injury and not be aware of it. Everyone is deeply embarrassed by this event so they spring into action and announce new paperwork requirements for injuries, the home office must now be notified in the event of an injury. Not because they'll actually do anything about it but because it's an excuse for more paperwork.

OK, now combine that with a second policy. Some beaucrat in some distant office does a study and realizes reporting requirements are being pushed to too high a level. Managers should do less of it and 


By the time the person typing up the new policy is on their keyboard. They have to hard-and-fast rules, no idea where either of them came from, and just want to finish it. So they type of the piece of paper and viola... yet another policy that makes no sense.

I don't have any idea how widespread this requirement was. Maybe other people have had the same thing. Maybe the office had just been reprimanded for not having enough paperwork so they created it, only to discard it a week after I left.

(Some people are on different sides of what to do in this situation - some go along with it without a thought, the recalcitrant ones mumble quiet protest, and, the bravest, blog furiously at home in meaningless protest)


And that's the point of emergent phenoma.

Bureaucracies are worthy of study. There are a lot of important things going on inside them that merit close inspection. For example, what kinds of situations does compromise result in the best scenario and when is it the worst case. There are many times when one person is in favor of action A, and another in favor of action E. But instead of choosing A or E, they 


I have run into so many situations where a compromise was taken when it clear that no one actually wants this policy. Many situations are like this. Think of how the US Post Office is run. Just to give a quick summary, ... No other organization I've ever heard of is required to do these things. No one would design any organization like this. My guess is that the organization of the USPS far worse than what any one group 



Independent agency
It's specifically mentioned in the Constitution
The Postal Accountability and Enhancement Act of 2006 required it to prefund its retirees' health benefits for the next 50 years. By the way, this bill passed the house with a voice vote and the senate with "Unanimous Consent*", so there is no way to know who voted in favor or against it (with the except of those listed as the sponsor or co-sponsors, and President Bush, who signed it into law). (Another good question for a bureaucracy expert - is this a good system?)
Charge money to 
How many days a week they have to deliver 

Between 2007 and 2016, the USPS lost $62.4 billion; the inspector general of the USPS estimated that $54.8 billion of that was due to prefunding retiree benefits. It has been claimed that this was rushed through the process. Question for a bureaucracy expert: What rules or practices could be put in place to prevent these things from being rushed, and would these rules be good to implement?

* Unanimous Consent does not actually have to be unanimous, so it's impossible to know what specific senators thought about it.


Congress chooses what it charges. Congress has oversight over where to 
That would be like a company existing when half of its board of directors didn't want it to exist. A bad idea.

When an inefficient post office closes, most people gain an infinitesimally tiny amount because its efficiency has increased, whereas a few people, namely those that live their and their representative in Congress, lose a lot. Even if the gain is greater overall, a single highly-motivated congressperson can make it very difficult for the USPS.


Competitive with the private sector. 

This matters. It employs X ppl. It delivers mail, which is essential to many people.


So we move forward with an abomination. And that abomination plays an incredibly important role in society. Many bureaucracies do.
I don't want to focus too much on the USPS because that's not the point. It's not about how bad this specific bill was, but to ask if there would be value in having bureaucracy experts. I warrant there would be. 
Also, what happens when one group wants to get rid of it and another wants to save it. Then they work together to come up with policies. But they have different goals, so how on Earth could they possibly come up with 

Should there be some structure in what to do in these situations?
A. Keep it alive
B. Eliminate it
C. A bit of A and a bit of B



It's fun to condescendingly say, but getting a Ph.D. isn't just about practical knowledge, it's about the search for new things and yada yada. Sure, but next time you're in a kafkaesque nightmare, ask yourself: Wouldn't this process be better if someone had thought through it?


On beaucracies
Here's a good example of people building on but never solving the problem. Passwords. You're supposed to use 12-16 characters, no words or phrases, etc. And have fifty of them. In the cyber training, it says to change them every three months
Two months


Bureaucracies are full of enforcers of these-are-the-rules-because-their-written-on-paper-with-the-word-rules-on-it kind of people. I'm not a fan of these types of people. Our conversations mostly consist of me asking "Why is there a 16 character limit for passwords" and being told some form of "Because this piece of paper says so". 


I don't know exactly why 


(Sidenote: maximum passwords limits this so low are extremely bad ideas)


